One more time!
Leave the ball for Hinata at the highest striking point
in the split-second he pauses at the summit!
Then take aim and swing!
The heat flickers
Sweat glitters on my skin
Shouts echo and shoulders hit
We asked the sky through the open window
Haikyuu !!
what our summer would be like
Tell me, Mr. Future
Come on, come on, come on
The chance is there
Do it together
Everybody always wants to stand there,
make mistakes, get angry, and struggle
We'll never give up
We don't want it to end
I will continue on with my imagination
I want to struggle and fall and become stronger
I want to persevere, stand back up, do it again,
and never give up
Let me run
I will run to where my imagination leads me
Episode Thirteen:
Worthy Adversaries
Damn. My set was slightly too high!
Captain!
Nice save, Daichi!
It's over the net!
Forward!
Nice, Inuoka!
Come at me!
Tora.
We're going in, Hinata! One, two...
Yes!
Kai, nice cover!
Wow, both teams' worker drones are doing good work.
They may not be spectacular, but it's guys like them who keep the ball in play that really make a match.
Kenma, gimme another!
They can say our offensive power is average all they want!
I'm still the ace of Nekoma!
Yes!
Shit!
Taketora is more psyched up than usual.
Maybe it's because there's someone a lot like himself on the other team.
Or maybe he's being influenced by the battle between Inuoka and their number ten?
Hinata and Kageyama's fast attacks just aren't lining up.
Unlike the deviant fast attacks they've been doing,
where Kageyama aligns perfectly to Hinata's moves,
now they're attempting to do normal fast attacks.
What Hinata needs is technical improvement.
You're still tensing up.
Your timing is slower than usual.
The only way to do that is conditioning through repetition.
But if he does manage to learn how to use it effectively...
...then they will no longer be "a demon and his iron club."
They will be "demon" and "demon."
Karasuno               Nekoma
Give us a good serve!
Which do I use on it? Over or under?
Cover it!
Ryuu!
You got it.
Asahi ain't the only one who can pull his weight in a crunch!
He blew away the blockers!
Boo-yah, boo-yah, boo-yah, boo-yaw!
I'm not gonna keep getting stopped either!
I'll stop them!
Hinata, Kageyama told you not to tense up so much, remember?
Keep your eyes wide open.
Y-Yes, sir!
Fukunaga!
The stocky guy with a crew cut is coming forward!
It's a fast attack!
Keep your eyes wide open.
Number seven from behind number two?!
Nice job getting a hand on it!
Here's our chance!
He's fast!
Nekoma's number seven also has fast reflexes!
They influence one another in a back-and-forth match
and occasionally draw out more power than their talent allows.
These are true worthy adversaries.
He got past!
It's in!
All right!
It's still a little too high.
One more!
Right on!
Shit!
Karasuno               Nekoma
I don't want them to hit 20 points before we do.
Inuoka, serve!
Coming up!
When Tall McSpiky goes to the back row, Rooster Head takes the front row.
I like playing with Tall McSpiky,
but this guy scares me.
You're more than a match for Inuoka, who stands 20 cm taller than you.
That's amazing, Small Fry.
You're the small fry, Small Fry!
Hey.
What're you...
We're going to do the usual fast attack next.
What? You mean the hard one, not the soft one?
Yes.
What? But I'm just starting to
get used to doing the soft one.
No.
Not while he's in the front row.
How come?
Just because.
Huh?
It's a hunch.
Give us a good serve, Inuoka!
All right!
Yes!
I really do love this sensation!
That was a good decision.
Huh?
Sorry, guys. I didn't see it coming.
I think for now, their deviant fast attack is more effective on Nekota's third-year middle blocker.
Shake it off, Kuro!
A normal fast attack would obviously be easier for their adept middle blocker to block.
Okay, I serve next.
He really is amazing.
Hey, hit it inside the lines this time.
He's the dictionary definition of the word "superhuman."
I know that!
All right, then.
Let's take it back.
Hinata, give us a nice serve!
Nice receive!
Yikes, it's all jumbled somehow.
Who will it be?
They should leave it to the one who can hit it the hardest. Number four!
A back row attack!
The front three were a ruse!
They completely shook off our blockers!
Here's our chance to score!
Who'll get it this time?
A quick attack!
All right!
In the blink of an eye!
That fast attack looks really consistent.
My perception may be off from being exposed to Hinata's erratic moves.
Okay, I'm serving next!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Give us a nice serve, Yamamoto!
Crap!
Sorry, cover it!
I'm open!
Asahi!
Who'll make the next attack?!
Another quick attack?!
He isn't jumping!
All right!
What just happened?
A delayed spike.
You act like you're about to jump for a quick attack
to throw off the opponents' block timing, and then hit.
This attack hasn't been that popular recently.
I'm impressed they threw it in right after their quick attack.
Nice set!
They're good.
Nice spike, Kuro!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Nekoma's made it to 20 points.
Five more will end it.
This is bad.
I've already used both of our timeouts.
Aw, shit! The guy is grinning at me!
Ever since their number one got up to the front row,
their attacks seem to have more of a sense of proficiency.
You're right.
Half of their starting lineup is made up of first-years.
If you called us level one with our newly assembled team,
that would put them 10 or 20 levels higher.
Yamamoto, give us a nice serve!
Go for it!
So they're a full-grown adult cat,
and we're a freshly-hatched baby crow.
Yeah, that. Good description.
No matter how we struggle against their versatile range of offense and defense, we can't possibly win.
Not today, anyway.
Which means...
Our only option is persistence and tenacity!
Attack them with power and speed!
You want us to force them into submission?!
That makes us sound like the bad guys.
What's wrong with being the bad guys?
You normally think of a crow as the bad guy!
Ukai, your face scares me!
Let it ride with our sloppy fast attacks, receives, and power plays!
Those are your weapons, you unrefined, klutzy slobs!
Bombard them with all the weaponry in your arsenal!
Hit them!
Hit them, and hit them hard!
Okay! Nice block, Tsukishima!
Tsukki, nice!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Shake it off, Inuoka!
I'm sorry!
Now Karasuno has hit 20 points!
Karasuno has taken the momentum to press their advantage.
Anybody flustered?
No, sir!
Good.
Keep that ball in play.
Yes, sir!
Karasuno               Nekoma
All right!
Good!
One more point and we're tied!
K-K-Keep going!
Chill out and stop them from scoring.
Yes, sir!
Yes!
It's upon us when you least expect it!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Match point for Nekoma.
One more point!
Yessir!
Shit!
Don't they ever get flustered?!
That's a grown-up cat for you.
It's all right!
Our team is still sharp!
Haikyuu !!
Yes!
We'll claw our way to a tie!
You're not getting past me!
Right on!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Now their number three is up in the front row.
We have our middle blockers, who are so pivotal to blocking, working at 100%.
On top of that, Hinata can score points by going around their blockers,
and Azumane is currently in the best position for scoring.
Having both of them in the front row, right now,
is our biggest opportunity to turn the match around!
If we get a point now, it's a deuce.
Yes.
A deuce would give us the opportunity to turn the match around!
This one ball is crucial.
Nice receive!
Hinata's fast attacks are still dodgy.
I have to choose.
Go!
Aw, he dug it out.
But...
It's coming back! We still have a chance!
Shit. I'm sorry!
Azumane, just spike it!
Oh crap!
Swat it down, Asahi!
They retrieved it again!
It's their chance to score again.
That's fine.
What?
It may not look that good, and it wasn't any kind of attack,
but as long as the ball is kept in play, you can't lose.
Here's our chance!
There's something about Hinata.
It's the same as when I first played against him.
That last-minute, larger-than-life presence!
He's saying, "I'm right here. Send it to me."
He's calling for it!
All right!
The team with the more powerful spike does not win.
The team who lets the ball touch the ground loses.
This is what it means
to keep the ball in play.
Right on!
Karasuno               Nekoma
Aw...
We didn't make that many mistakes,
and we utilized the most powerful weapons in our arsenal.
But we didn't win.
That must be a team trained as
a team rather than as individuals.
I accept defeat.
One more time!
Let's play
one more time!
Yeah, I plan to do just that!
Practice matches are all about playing all over again.
Nice location!
Let 'er fly!
One more!
May 6th   Fair Weather
Karasuno High Proceeds to Athletic Park
Begin warmup
Begin practice match
Karasuno
Nekoma
Now we've been thrashed beyond a shadow of a doubt.
Now they're truly exhausted.
One more time!
What?!
You haven't stopped moving the entire time!
What batteries are you using?!
Hey, knock it off!
They have to catch the bullet train!
Gather 'round!
His grandfather and I have had a lengthy acquaintance.
We used to have our teams play lots of practice matches.
It was always a pretty good contest.
However...
Retiring?
Old age has caught up with me.
Sorry.
Really?
Oh well. I'm sure we won't be hard up for practice match opponents, with or without you around.
Good rivals just aren't that easy to find.
Later, I heard that old man Ukai fell ill soon after coming out of retirement.
I was sure that Karasuno would never come back from that.
However, to be honest, you have more talent than I imagined.
Especially in the attacking department.
The number nine, number ten fast attack.
I doubt many can prevent that attack.
I also believe that your two left wing spikers are powerful weapons.
Now it's up to how long you keep the ball in play.
Yes, sir!
As a team, you're rough and need more practice.
But you have overwhelming potential.
I'm sure you will improve greatly with the appropriate training.
I'm really glad to see this.
We have a worthy rival once again.
I'll see you next at nationals.
In that shiny, spotless, huge gymnasium,
whirling with emotions and full of spectators.
And we'll have our greatest
Battle of the Garbage Dumpster ever!
Yes, sir!
Okay, now let's get this all put away!
Yessir!
You shit!
You piece of poo!
Hey, get this put away!
Equipment Room
Hey!
Huh?
What's up, eh? You wanna rumble again? Eh?
Eh, city boy?
Um, actually...
It's about your...
Your man... Your female manager...
What is your manager's name?
Why, you!
Are you planning to make a move on Kiyo—
I mean, the manager of our team?!
I'll run my fingers through that ruffle of yours!
No.
I do not have the courage to talk to her.
Fukunaga, take care of the mopping there.
Yessir.
Yaku, mop over here.
Kiyoko.
Her name is Shimizu Kiyoko.
My god!
The meaning of her name, clear spring water, is so fitting!
Isn't it, though?!
It also took me quite a while to speak up to her, so I know how you feel.
However...
It's not bad to call out to her and be completely ignored.
No! That bar is set way too high for me!
Well, I'll be! You're not such a bad guy after all!
You too.
I'm Yamamoto Taketora.
Tanaka Ryuunosuke.
How long have you been playing? Who taught you?
How long have you been a setter? Come up with that feint yourself?
Have you been training? Ever hit a brick wall?
Ours is a more "grr"-ing kind of guy.
That's who he meant.
That was incredible, Shouyou!
All those "vrooms" and "swooshes"!
Oh, I'm Inuoka. A first-year.
And you're really tall,
but you sure can "zoom" and "boom"!
Your "zip" was totally impressive!
Your "ba-zoom" was too!
That "ba-ba-boom" was a real smash hit!
It was more of a "chu-doom" than a "smash"!
What is that conversation?
That isn't the conversation of high schoolers.
But I think you could try goofing
around more like a high schooler.
I'm not good at it.
You're so young.
I-I'm sorry! I should've been moving faster!
What? No, uh... I'm sorry.
I'm to blame! Please forgive me!
What?! Uh...
That bearded mouse is scaring the freshmen.
Listen! I can really manage that all by myself!
I can't risk harm to your hands!
They look like father and son from where I'm standing.
No, please...
Please let me redeem myself!
They look more like scared kid and his kidnapper to me.
Excuse me, but I'm really getting stared at.
I'm sorry.
Just avert your eyes, and you'll be fine.
Number three, your receives were amazing!
I've never seen anyone dig out spikes from our ace before.
I believe you have amazing talent as a libero on a team with such good receiving skills!
I won't be beaten by you! Excuse me!
Hey, that's too one-sided.
I apologize on his behalf.
He's dangerous.
He's a highly skilled libero himself,
but he's not conceited. He only looks onward and upward.
He's frightening.
Mr. Nekomata, thank you for
making such a long trip out today.
No, no. Thank you.
It must be difficult to set up practice matches without having the right connections.
Why, you called me multiple times,
and then ended up blurting out you'd visit me in person!
I'm sorry!
But enthusiasm breeds enthusiasm.
Keep on working hard despite your ineptitude, and the students will follow.
Keep it up!
Thank you so much!
I want you to get it together too, Keishin.
'Cause we played three matches and you didn't take a single set.
The next time we play, we'll beat you in straight sets.
Oh, really?
I just hope you're not full of hot air.
Sir, don't provoke him so much.
It's his own damned fault for wearing the old man's face!
That's immature!
U-Ukai!
You said you would only stay on as coach until the Nekoma match.
I can't take that lying down!
What?!
I will take my revenge in a match that really counts!
Comrade! We shall meet again!
What the heck is that?
Beats me.
Avert your eyes.
We won't lose next time.
We won't lose next time either.
Stop it! You're scaring us!
The next time won't go down like it went today.
I really hope so, or it won't be much of a practice match!
It's catching on!
That's so immature!
Kenma!
Shouyou.
Remember when we met on the street the other day,
and you said you really didn't like volleyball that much?
Oh... yeah.
How about today? How did you like winning?
It was just the same old thing.
Next time,
I'll make you desperate to win,
and we'll win.
And then I'll make you say,
"I hate losing!" or "That was a blast!"
You'll start talking differently about the match!
Okay.
I'll look forward to that.
If I tell you this story,
I wonder if I can explain to you
my feelings
and the distance between us
Standing on an empty field
I breathe out into the night air
Countless times I swore that I would change
I stumbled and fell a lot,
but I swore I would laugh at the end
and not let my tears go to waste
There are so many dreams that can definitely come true
I always sat somewhere, downcast, dejected, depressed,
but still I decided I would fight,
and not let all my frustration go to waste
This is our revenge
If that had been an official match...
it would've been over the instant we lost the very first match.
All of it.
I know.
So you are fully aware.
The official matches, the interhigh prelims, are right around the corner.
We're heading back right away.
We need to reflect upon and analyze today's practice matches!
And then, we practice!
Thank you, sir!
Next Episode Preview
Come to think of it, Kageyama, did you ask the opponents' setter about the technique to feint with his eyes?
No.
Honestly, Kageyama! Are you shy or something?
What's that, moron?!
Ow, ow, ow, ow! Lay off the iron claw!
Episode Fourteen:
The Tough Opponents
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Tough Opponents."